# Instrument

Data were collected by creating a custom software integration with a Qualtrics Survey.

The survey did 2 special things:

1.
Collected browser attributes data by querying participants' browsers
- data were collected __only with explicit consent from participants__.
Participants had the option to decline to share the browser data and still be paid for participation. In this case, no browser attributes left their machine.

2.
Embedded an experiment. A random subset of participants had a flag turned on: showdata=true/false.
- experiment randomization was 50/50.
- showdata=true: participants were shown the browser attributes that would be collected in a table (see preview below).

Most data were collected by recruiting participants via Prolific. An initial sample was recruited among colleagues. Colleagues used a link with a flag (via URL parameter) to avoid seeing content for Prolific integration. Otherwise all content was the same.

In Qualtrics we used a setting so that participants could only fill out the survey from a given device once (Qualtrics might use fingerprinting!). Also, Prolific participants have no incentive to fill it out more than once since they will only get paid once.

All data were collected in December, 2023.

## Survey links

The survey is closed for data collection, but we provide public preview links.

- Preview link for Prolific participants: [default](https://mit.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/preview/previewId/57af6420-22dd-4fef-be93-073ba3864e11/SV_7U8Lxy8p2sdJp4i?Q_CHL=preview&Q_SurveyVersionID=current)

- Preview link for colleagues: [?COLLEAGUE=true](https://mit.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/preview/previewId/57af6420-22dd-4fef-be93-073ba3864e11/SV_7U8Lxy8p2sdJp4i?Q_CHL=preview&Q_SurveyVersionID=current&COLLEAGUE=true)


- Preview link that forces showdata=true: [?COLLEAGUE=true&showdata=true](https://mit.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/preview/previewId/57af6420-22dd-4fef-be93-073ba3864e11/SV_7U8Lxy8p2sdJp4i?Q_CHL=preview&Q_SurveyVersionID=current&COLLEAGUE=true&showdata=true)


## Test page

https://aberke.github.io/fingerprinting-study/instrument/index.html?showdata=true


Use URL parameters for showdata true/false:
- ?showdata=true (default)
- ?showdata=false


## Custom software Qualtrics integration

Custom software was developed to make the page where users consent to share browser attributes data.

This only works given a specific survey set up described below and is quirky in order to work around Qualtrics quirks.

Overview:

We use qualtrics and hack together both the [Javascript Questions API](https://api.qualtrics.com/82bd4d5c331f1-qualtrics-java-script-question-api-class) and the [Response API](https://api.qualtrics.com/354c312da7cc7-survey-responses).

When respondents consent to share their browser attributes data, they do so with a Qualtrics multiple choice question type. In the background we then upload a csv file with the shared browser attributes data.

The csv file is saved as a separate survey response where the file is named with the responseId of the participant who shared the data.

The result is 1-2 responses per respondent.

1. Survey responses for questions the respondant filled out in the survey. It excludes the file upload.

2. Only included if the participant consented to sharing their browser attributes data. These responses only contain file uploads. The ResponseId generated by Qualtrics is different but the file name corresponds to the ResponseId for the participant who shared the file.

Here is how we do this (can skip why):

## Set up 

This requires a quirky set up in Qualtrics to make this work.


### Invisible File Upload

We upload data files to an invisible file upload question.

#### Steps:
- Create as the first question: A file upload question type.
- Make the question always hidden. Can do this via display logic: Display question with true/false --> set to false. (Preview survey to make sure hidden)
- Get the __FQID__: Capture the Question ID for the file upload question. Call this the __FQID__: It is of form QID{int}. It is NOT the same as the Q{int} name shown in the survey builder. A few ways to get it. Can get the FQID value using the [piped text feature](https://www.qualtrics.com/support/survey-platform/survey-module/editing-questions/piped-text/piped-text-overview/#PipingFromAPreviousQuestion):
    - click to edit the question
    - click Piped Text > Survey Question
    - edit this survey question. Select anything (File Name)
    - See in the question: ${q://{FQID}/UploadedFileName}

### Set embedded data

We set embedded data (some specific to this survey) to get and use in the questions.

#### Steps:
- Go into Survey Flow.
- Add new element > Embedded data
- Move the elemnt to the top of the survey flow
- Use Add New Field to set the embedded data elements:
- SurveyID: from Survey Metadata
- ResponseID: from Survey Metadata (not RID)
- FQID: Custom value from above
- API_TOKEN: Custom value



## Data share question

We use the multiple choice question type.

### Question choice codes

Make sure the question choice values are recoded as follows.

- 1 = Consent to share
- 0 = Decline

Steps:
- click on the question
- click Button behavior > x -> Recode values

Why?
- we only upload the data if Yes -- need to get value via JS upon question submission.

### Question HTML and JS

The question we show participants with the embedded JS functionality is created via editing the question using the HTML editor. 

Insert:

```
[CSS]
[HTML]
<!-- JS libraries  -->
<script src="https://unpkg.com/papaparse@5.3.2/papaparse.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://aberke.github.io/fingerprinting-study/instrument/fpjs.js"></script>
```

Dump the contents of our JS script into the Qualtrics question JavaScript editor:

```
Qualtrics.SurveyEngine.addOnload(function() {

    // all of our JavaScript

});
```

Why work with JS this way? 
- It must be done this way to make the advertised Qualtrics.SurveyEngine APIs work properly. 
- Why not put our JS into external scripts like the libraries?  Many hours went into trying to make this work otherwise via external scripts. 
- The API interface does not seem to properly work outside of the JS editing interface Qualtrics provides.
